---
layout: post
title:  "How Slow Browser Adoption Hurts"
date:   2013-06-25 13:39:31
categories: 
snippet: One of the issues that not only PepsiCo faces, but corporations around the world, is browser adoption. At the rate technology increases, stable browser updates are being released on a monthly basis, with developer versions and nightly builds being released daily and weekly. Clearly, the technology community is pushing web browsing ever farther into the future...
---

One of the issues that not only PepsiCo faces, but corporations around the world, is browser adoption. At the rate technology increases, stable browser updates are being released on a monthly basis, with developer versions and nightly builds being released daily and weekly. Clearly, the technology community is pushing web browsing ever farther into the future.

So, where does this put us? When IE6 came out it revolutionized the web. It introduced several new features, a reworked user interface, and support for many of microsoft’s products. It received the highest adoption that any browser has ever received. Therefore, our developers began writing software for IE6. After some time, Microsoft released IE7, and IE8, Firefox was introduced, Apple released Safari, the Webkit engine became supported by Apple and Google and Chrome was released. Opera continues to have a marginal share, and just recently Google announced leaving Webkit and developing Blink, which was forked from Webkit. Scalable Vector Graphics replaced IE’s RVML and now with the introduction of HTML 5 we see ever dwindling numbers of Flash-based applications and much more use of the canvas element for rendering visual heavy web applications and games.

How can a company possibly expect to keep up with this kind of technology? The answer that I have seen is simple. Forward thinking. Too often are we concerned with, is our software backward compatible. What we should be concerned with, is our software forward compatible. Why would I write software today that is geared towards IE8? Developers need to focus on writing software that works with the latest technology always. When a new browser rolls out, QA should be testing our software in that browser as well as the current major release that we are using. This will much more freely allow PepsiCo and other coporations to adopt newer browsers.

Aside from this, it allows PepsiCo to take advantage of the web. The reason new browsers are being released is because new technology in being introduced. When we stick with IE8 instead of moving forward, in the long run we hurt ourselves because we can’t leverage the new features of the web while the competition can. We can’t leverage the canvas element. We are forever stuck in our rut of Java applications and JSPs when the modern web and technology community has moved far beyond that. What we should be doing is always adapting our code to work in the latest browsers as well as the current major release. I know this is possible because as a software developer for the past several years I have had to write code that functions not only in Chrome and Safari, but also IE6, 7, 8, and 9. We don’t necessarily need to support IE6 because we’re past that now. But, test our code in Chrome and IE9 and 10 because eventually that’s the platform we want to move to. It may cost slightly more now to make sure our code works everywhere, but its better to pay this price incrementally rather than hit a wall and spend time overhauling every application and every piece of software in order to bring our code up to speed with the web. If we work incrementally on each piece of software that we write, we enable ourselves to leverage new technology and pay the price of updating software over a longer period of time. This is much more effective than hitting a wall and firefighting our way past it in order to update to IE10.

This is our code. What about our vendors? Vendors may or may not support the latest browser, but as a customer, you can demand that they do so. As a large corporation, we have sufficient leverage against these corporations to update. Although we may not be able to force them to move, this is less of an issue.

The most important thing is that we keep ourselves up to date and take advantage of new technology that can put us one step ahead of the competition